Today I will share with you the
analysis I proposed you the other
day of the Infinite Fitness case.
I chose Infinite Fitness because
it's a chain of gyms I know
and because I think its business
model can help us reinforce a
series of concepts we're learning
and that I want us to work
on seeing more cases, which
is the best way to go assimilating
the concepts.
You probably already understand,
you already know the definition
of the concept of entry barriers,
scalability, exchange costs,
the recurrence of the English,
cash flows, but it is not
about knowing the definition.
Everyone knows the definition.
What it is about is that you
understand well what we are referring
to and be able to apply
it to different business models
or in analysis of different types.
When you are able to do that, it
is when you have really acquired
valuable knowledge.
Well, let's get the conclusions, with
the Infinite Fitness analysis.
The first thing I want to say
is that two business models
really come together.
Why is?
This is very common in chains
that grow through the franchise
model, because we are talking
about having a distribution
channel of their own, which are
owned gyms and a distribution
channel in which you support
partners as they are franchised.
It is a direct or indirect channel.
And this has huge implications
for the rest of the business
model, so I think it's
two business models
that coexist.
Well, by the way, it is common in
all franchise chains, it is a distribution
channel of its own, because
you can't franchise if you
don't know the operations
and you haven't had first
success in that business.
I will analyze them separately.
On the one hand, I will analyze
the business model of the own
gyms of Infinite Fitness, which
is really a regular business
model of any gym.
The customers are the neighbors, they
are the people who live around, the
gyms are their own, it's a distribution
channel of their own and here
we come to the first of the conclusions,
with the flow of income.
What about the flow of income?
What would your analysis of
a gym's income flow be like?
I think there are two clear
strengths.
The first is that the income is very recurring.
Partners pay a quota very recurrently
and a gym is very easy to anticipate
what you're going to There's some
temporary seasonality, because
there are times when there's a
lot of highs and there's times
when there's a lot of lows,
but well, it's something you
can count on.
So, income is recurring,
that's a clear strength.
There is another concept that you should
incorporate, which is that of
exchange costs.
I asked you to think about the exchange
costs.
Exchange costs, as I have said
other times, occur when it is difficult
for the customer to change.
In some sectors, exchange costs are
very high and in others they are
very low.
And in the gyms, there is a
certain exchange cost, especially
because chains like Infinite Fitness,
in many cases, encourage you
to commit to pay, for example,
a year in exchange
for a price reduction.
So, that makes the exchange cost
very high, because if you drop
and you have a few, that is,
you have not a few months,
because it is costing you
a lot to change.
It is another strength of the income flow.
In the revenue stream it is clear
that gyms have, it is a very
attractive model.
Now, let's go to the part
of resources and costs.
It is clear that the most important
resource that a gym has is related
to the local and with the machinery,
which costs a lot of money
to reform the local and maintain
a machinery that has been left
alone and that in addition
any of the machines because it
costs a lot of money, generates
very high performance quotas.
Well, it is clear that the resources
are these and we will analyze
them in the business model from
this perspective.
On the one hand, I have raised
you, these resources generate
entry bars, they generate
entry bars, because when you have
a gym in a particular site, that
area is protected, there will
be no crazy who puts a
gym next to yours in
principle, unless it is
a gym with a very different
concept, much cheaper or much
more premium.
It's an entry barrier, at the
moment you have a location
and it's yours, you're generating
an entry barrier for potential
competitors.
This is good.
But on the other hand, there
is a clear weakness that we have seen
other times and is that the scalability
is very low, when you depend
on resources as they are, such
as having the asset in ownership
or the local.
You grow very slowly and that
is why it is exactly because
of this weakness, many chains
opt, not only in the gym
sector, but the hospitality
sector, etc., opt to grow
through franchises.
This is the answer.
They are companies that have ambition
to be big, but they can't do
so by mounting them all the gyms,
because of course, the need
you have for capital is huge and
if you want to grow very fast,
what you can do is opt for
the franchise model and we'll
analyze it on the canvas.
In this case, we have a similar photo.
The gym clients are still the
neighbors and you are charging a
much smaller amount because you
are charging a franchise, a
percentage of, well, there are
different formulas, but this
is not the important thing now.
The important thing is that your key
resource to grow are no longer the
gyms, nor the machinery, nor the
locals, are having agreements
with franchisees.
Which resource do you think is more scalable?
The franchise model is
much more scalable.
It's much easier to grow without
the need to permanently make additional
investments through franchise.
And in fact the model, that's
why the franchise model
is so attractive, because if you'
re fine, if your franchisees
are fine, your income
can be shot, remember the scalability
curve, your income can be shot
and your costs can remain
relatively flat because
your costs are your central
service structure that
serves your franchisees.
Let us make a final review.
We start with the channel model.
It is an attractive business with
recurring revenue in terms of revenue
flows because they are recurring
and because there are certain
costs of changing customers.
This is an attractive model.
However, it is a very difficult
model to grow.
Why is?
Because you need key resources
that are very capital-intensive
and if you want to grow a lot, if
you want to open 10 gyms, because
you have to Well, then what happens
is that if you grow, you
can do so, but in addition
your costs will grow proportionately
because you will have to
hire more staff, you will
have to pay more rent, etc.,
more machinery, more
renting, etc. etc.
Is it worth?
This would be the curve.
However, what we do, of course,
is opt to combine it with a
formula that allows us to
grow more scalably, which
are franchises.
Why is?
Because we no longer need
to grow assets as capital-
intensive as machinery,
but what we do is that
those assets are put
by franchisees.
We have turned a key resource
into a strategic alliance and
the resource we need are agreements.
The cost structure allows
us to grow a lot, but the
cost structure can remain light
because the only thing we have
to have is central services,
people in the central offices
that cover those franchisees.
And so the curve could be like
that.
We could grow with many
franchisees that push in revenue
and our costs that stay
more or less flat.